## General

These options can be used to set some general working parameters.

### Load session from a stored (.sqlite) file

Option: `-s`

sqlmap automatically creates a persistent session SQLite file for each target, inside dedicated output directory, where it stores all data required for session resumal. If user wants to explicitly set the session file location (e.g. for storing of session data for multiple targets at one place) he can use this option.

### Log HTTP(s) traffic to a textual file

Option: `-t`

This option requires an argument that specified the textual file to write all HTTP(s) traffic generated by sqlmap - HTTP(S) requests and HTTP(S) responses. 

This is useful primarily for debug purposes - when you provide the developers with a potential bug report, send this file too.

### Act in non-interactive mode

Switch: `--batch`

If you want sqlmap to run as a batch tool, without any user's interaction  when sqlmap requires it, you can force that by using switch `--batch`. This will leave sqlmap to go with a default behaviour whenever user's input would be required. 

### Binary content retrieval

Option `--binary-fields`

In case of binary content retrieval, like in example of tables having column(s) with stored binary values (e.g. column `password` with binary stored password hash values), it is possible to use option `--binary-fields` for (extra) proper handling by sqlmap. All those fields (i.e. table columns) are then retrieved and represented in their hexadecimal representation, so afterwards they could be properly processed with other tools (e.g. `john`).

### Force character encoding used for data retrieval

Option: `--charset`

For proper decoding of character data sqlmap uses either web server provided information (e.g. HTTP header `Content-Type`) or a heuristic result coming from a 3rd party library [chardet](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/chardet).

Nevertheless, there are cases when this value has to be overwritten, especially when retrieving data containing international non-ASCII letters (e.g. `--charset=GBK`). It has to be noted that there is a possibility that character information is going to be irreversibly lost due to implicit incompatibility between stored database content and used database connector at the target side.

### Crawl the website starting from the target URL

Option: `--crawl`

sqlmap can collect potentially vulnerable links by collecting them (crawling) starting from the target location. Using this option user can set a depth (distance from a starting location) below which sqlmap won't go in collecting phase, as the process is being done recursively as long as there are new links to be visited.

Example run against a MySQL target:

```
$ python sqlmap.py -u "http://192.168.21.128/sqlmap/mysql/" --batch --crawl=3
[...]
[xx:xx:53] [INFO] starting crawler
[xx:xx:53] [INFO] searching for links with depth 1
[xx:xx:53] [WARNING] running in a single-thread mode. This could take a while
[xx:xx:53] [INFO] searching for links with depth 2
[xx:xx:54] [INFO] heuristics detected web page charset 'ascii'
[xx:xx:00] [INFO] 42/56 links visited (75%)
[...]
```

Option `--crawl-exclude`

With this option you can exclude pages from crawling by providing a regular expression. For example, if you want to skip all pages that have the keyword `logout` in their paths, you can use `--crawl-exclude=logout`.

### Delimiting character used in CSV output

Option: `--csv-del`

When data being dumped is stored into the CSV format (`--dump-format=CSV`), entries have to be separated with a "separation value" (default is `,`). In case that user wants to override its default value he can use this option (e.g. `--csv-del=";"`).

### DBMS authentication credentials

Option: `--dbms-cred`

In some cases user will be warned that some operations failed because of lack of current DBMS user privileges and that he could try to use this option. In those cases, if he provides `admin` user credentials to sqlmap by using this option, sqlmap will try to rerun the problematic part with specialized "run as" mechanisms (e.g. `OPENROWSET` on Microsoft SQL Server) using those credentials.

### Format of dumped data

Option: `--dump-format`

sqlmap supports three different types of formatting when storing dumped table data into the corresponding file inside an output directory: `CSV`, `HTML` and `SQLITE`. Default one is `CSV`, where each table row is stored into a textual file line by line, and where each entry is separated with a comma character `,` (or one provided with option `--csv-del`). In case of `HTML`, output is being stored into a HTML file, where each row is represented with a row inside a formatted table. In case of `SQLITE`, output is being stored into a SQLITE database, where original table content is replicated into the corresponding table having a same name.

### Estimated time of arrival

Switch: `--eta`

It is possible to calculate and show in real time the estimated time of arrival to retrieve each query output. This is shown when the technique used to retrieve the output is any of the blind SQL injection types. 

Example against an Oracle target affected only by boolean-based blind SQL injection:

```
$ python sqlmap.py -u "http://192.168.136.131/sqlmap/oracle/get_int_bool.php?id\
=1" -b --eta

[...]
[hh:mm:01] [INFO] the back-end DBMS is Oracle
[hh:mm:01] [INFO] fetching banner
[hh:mm:01] [INFO] retrieving the length of query output
[hh:mm:01] [INFO] retrieved: 64
17% [========>                                          ] 11/64  ETA 00:19
```

Then:

```
100% [===================================================] 64/64
[hh:mm:53] [INFO] retrieved: Oracle Database 10g Enterprise Edition Release 10.2
.0.1.0 - Prod

web application technology: PHP 5.2.6, Apache 2.2.9
back-end DBMS: Oracle
banner:    'Oracle Database 10g Enterprise Edition Release 10.2.0.1.0 - Prod'
```

As you can see, sqlmap first calculates the length of the query output, then estimates the time of arrival, shows the progress in percentage and counts the number of retrieved output characters. 

### Flush session files

Option: `--flush-session`

As you are already familiar with the concept of a session file from the description above, it is good to know that you can flush the content of that file using option `--flush-session`. This way you can avoid the caching mechanisms implemented by default in sqlmap. Other possible way is to manually remove the session file(s). 

### Parse and test forms' input fields

Switch: `--forms`

Say that you want to test against SQL injections a huge _search form_ or you want to test a login bypass (typically only two input fields named like _username_ and _password_), you can either pass to sqlmap the request in a request file (`-r`), set the POSTed data accordingly (`--data`) or let sqlmap do it for you! 

Both of the above mentioned instances, and many others, appear as ` <form>` and ` <input>` tags in HTML response bodies and this is where this switch comes into play.

Provide sqlmap with `--forms` as well as the page where the form can be found as the target URL (`-u`) and sqlmap will request the target URL for you, parse the forms it has and guide you through to test for SQL injection on those form input fields (parameters) rather than the target URL provided. 

### Ignore query results stored in session file

Switch: `--fresh-queries`

As you are already familiar with the concept of a session file from the description above, it is good to know that you can ignore the content of that file using option `--fresh-queries`. This way you can keep the session file untouched and for a selected run, avoid the resuming/restoring of queries output. 

### Use DBMS hex function(s) for data retrieval

Switch: `--hex`

In lost of cases retrieval of non-ASCII data requires special needs. One solution for that problem is usage of DBMS hex function(s). Turned on by this switch, data is encoded to it's hexadecimal form before being retrieved and afterwards unencoded to it's original form.

Example against a PostgreSQL target:

```
$ python sqlmap.py -u "http://192.168.48.130/sqlmap/pgsql/get_int.php?id=1" --b\
anner --hex -v 3 --parse-errors

[...]
[xx:xx:14] [INFO] fetching banner
[xx:xx:14] [PAYLOAD] 1 AND 5849=CAST((CHR(58)||CHR(118)||CHR(116)||CHR(106)||CHR
(58))||(ENCODE(CONVERT_TO((COALESCE(CAST(VERSION() AS CHARACTER(10000)),(CHR(32)
))),(CHR(85)||CHR(84)||CHR(70)||CHR(56))),(CHR(72)||CHR(69)||CHR(88))))::text||(
CHR(58)||CHR(110)||CHR(120)||CHR(98)||CHR(58)) AS NUMERIC)
[xx:xx:15] [INFO] parsed error message: 'pg_query() [<a href='function.pg-query'
>function.pg-query</a>]: Query failed: ERROR:  invalid input syntax for type num
eric: ":vtj:506f737467726553514c20382e332e39206f6e20693438362d70632d6c696e75782d
676e752c20636f6d70696c656420627920474343206763632d342e332e7265616c20284465626961
6e2032e332e322d312e312920342e332e32:nxb:" in <b>/var/www/sqlmap/libs/pgsql.inc.p
hp</b> on line <b>35</b>'
[xx:xx:15] [INFO] retrieved: PostgreSQL 8.3.9 on i486-pc-linux-gnu, compiled by 
GCC gcc-4.3.real (Debian 4.3.2-1.1) 4.3.2
[...]
```

### Custom output directory path

Option: `--output-dir`

sqlmap by default stores session and result files inside a subdirectory `output`. In case you want to use a different location, you can use this option (e.g. `--output-dir=/tmp`).

### Parse DBMS error messages from response pages

Switch: `--parse-errors`

If the web application is configured in debug mode so that it displays in the HTTP responses the back-end database management system error messages, sqlmap can parse and display them for you.

This is useful for debugging purposes like understanding why a certain enumeration or takeover switch does not work - it might be a matter of session user's privileges and in this case you would see a DBMS error message along the lines of `Access denied for user  <SESSION USER>`. 

Example against a Microsoft SQL Server target:

```
$ python sqlmap.py -u "http://192.168.21.129/sqlmap/mssql/iis/get_int.asp?id=1"\
 --parse-errors
[...]
[xx:xx:17] [INFO] ORDER BY technique seems to be usable. This should reduce the 
timeneeded to find the right number of query columns. Automatically extending th
e rangefor current UNION query injection technique test
[xx:xx:17] [INFO] parsed error message: 'Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Driv
ers (0x80040E14)
[Microsoft][ODBC SQL Server Driver][SQL Server]The ORDER BY position number 10 i
s out of range of the number of items in the select list.
<b>/sqlmap/mssql/iis/get_int.asp, line 27</b>'
[xx:xx:17] [INFO] parsed error message: 'Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Driv
ers (0x80040E14)
[Microsoft][ODBC SQL Server Driver][SQL Server]The ORDER BY position number 6 is
 out of range of the number of items in the select list.
<b>/sqlmap/mssql/iis/get_int.asp, line 27</b>'
[xx:xx:17] [INFO] parsed error message: 'Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Driv
ers (0x80040E14)
[Microsoft][ODBC SQL Server Driver][SQL Server]The ORDER BY position number 4 is
 out of range of the number of items in the select list.
<b>/sqlmap/mssql/iis/get_int.asp, line 27</b>'
[xx:xx:17] [INFO] target URL appears to have 3 columns in query
[...]
```

### Save options in a configuration INI file

Option: `--save`

It is possible to save the command line options to a configuration INI file. The generated file can then be edited and passed to sqlmap with the `-c` option as explained above.

### Update sqlmap

Switch: `--update`

Using this option you can update the tool to the latest development version directly from the [Git repository](https://github.com/sqlmapproject/sqlmap.git). You obviously need Internet access. 

If, for any reason, this operation fails, run `git pull` from your sqlmap working copy. It will perform the exact same operation of switch `--update`. If you are running sqlmap on Windows, you can use the [SmartGit](http://www.syntevo.com/smartgit/index.html) client. 

This is strongly recommended **before** reporting any bug to the [mailing lists](http://www.sqlmap.org/#ml).